#### SBO MANAGER

My first common lisp applicaton to share is called sbomg.lisp (sbo manager). Whenever I upgrade slackware, I like to also upgrade all the third party packages available from https://www.slackbuilds.org. sbomg.lisp does this and is a huge timesaver.

The following prerequisites have to be met for sbomg.lisp to work:
- Sbopkg from https://sbopkg.org is a needed prerequisite. And, because sbomg.lisp runs "slackpkg clean-system" between queues, sbopkg must be added to /etc/slackpkg/blacklist so clean-system doesn't remove it while sbomg.lisp is running.
- Steel Bank Common Lisp is also a needed prerequisite.  It can be installed using sbopkg:  "sbopkg -i sbcl".  Once installed, sbcl also needs to be added to /etc/slackpkg/blacklist for the same reason: so clean system doesn't remove it while sbomg.lisp is running.
- Stee Bank Common Lisp must also be configured to use Quicklisp, common lisp's package manager for popular common lisp systems.  Because all modifications to my slackware system made by quicklisp occur only in the folder ~/quicklisp, I am not in the habit of creating a separate slackware package for quicklisp.  (Quicklisp is similar to python's pip, or perl's cpan:  it is a facility for providing libaries on the fly.  This technically violates the slackware way of only installing something using slackware's pkgtools (installpkg or upgradepkg).  But because all the quicklisp libaries are in one folder, that I could just delete if I was worried about it, and because of laziness, I'm allowing an exception to the slackware way for the case of quicklisp :)  To obtain and configure quicklisp, download https://beta.quicklisp.org/quicklisp.lisp , then at cli (on a slackware system of course), type "sbcl", and at the lisp prompt enter (load "quicklisp.lisp") and it will prompt you for how you want to configure quicklisp--I just choose all the defaults, which creates a folder in my home folder called quicklisp, and which loads the quicklisp system by default everytime I start sbcl.
-  Sbopkg comes with a bash script, Slackbuild Queue Generator, installed to /usr/sbin/sqg, which by default, skips creating queue files for packages that do not have any dependencies. This behavior needs to be changed by editing sqg, and uncommenting the line: SKIP_EMPTY=${SKIP_EMPTY:-NO}. Sbomg.lisp feeds the custom list of sbo packages to sqg and then processes the resultant queue files, and so needs queue files for single packages too, so they're not skipped.

Once quicklisp is configured, once sbopkg is installed and added to the slackpkg blacklist, and once sqg has been modified to not skip empty queues, then, the system is prepared to build packages with sbomg.lisp. At the cli in the directory where you saved sbomg.lisp excute "sbcl", and then at the lisp prompt enter (load "sbomg.lisp")--type the parentheses too of course--and watch it build your third party packages! Oh, you probably will want to edit sbomg.lisp and add the third party packages you want to build.

Please fork and make improvements, as this is my first common-lisp project beyond hello-world, and I'm sure it could be improved.

-- slac.in.the.box
