#### Here's the situation: there are too many programming languages -- please stop making them and learn Common Lisp!

Why are there so many programming languages? Greedy money grubbing glory: each new programming language serves some faction's economic and political agenda. It has something to do with millions of young programmers, with fresh degrees in computer science, but without wisdom or guidance, following each other -- they keep making new programming languages just to feel powerful, but without actually advancing computer science.

As the second oldest extant programming language, Common Lisp has stood the test of time. Instead of syntax created at the arbitrary whim of young programmers, John McCarthy, in his 1960 paper, "Recurse Functions in Symbolic Expression and their Computation by Machine (Part I)" noticed that Lambda Calculus already provided a syntax suitable to recursive iteration and hence the perfect syntax for a programming language. It is commonly acknowledged that this paper advanced computer science by giving birth to lisp, the first functional programming language. However, it should also be noted that John McCarthy advanced computer science by saving programming language syntax from unnecessary politics: mathematics already provided a syntax, so there was no need to go and create thousands of programming languages with different syntaxes: all of that was vanity.

The symbols used in common lisp are the same symbols used in arithmetic and algebra. Controlling order of operations with parentheses is taught to grade school children, and thus feels natural, especially with a color coded indenting editor like emacs. The functions and variables in common lisp can be given easy to read names, like the-function-that-does-this, or the-function-that-does-that. Even its name makes since: lisp is short for list processing. Common Lisp code is readable!

Nevertheless, Common Lisp is not popular with all those language-making eco-political factions: searching for it at google's summer of code dosn't yield any sponsors; nor does common lisp turn up too many jobs when typed into the tech job search engines. So why hasn't common lisp died like so many others?

**The reason why Lisp is still around after 60 years, is because programmers like it! I like it. Hacking in the REPL is a fun way to program. I like common lisp so much, that I teach it to children. I'm not the only one. Common Lisp is the ancient programming language of the future.**
